My theme for this little discussion is
“Husbands, Love Your Wife as Yourself.”
What did Jesus say
was the second greatest commandment?
Well,
you’re familiar with it.
At Matthew 22:39,
he said:
“You must love
your neighbor as yourself.”
Now,
what an excellent illustration
is contained
in this second greatest commandment!
If you think about it,
we just naturally,
inherently, love ourselves,
don’t we?
And we show
love in many ways.
So Jesus is saying,
“Work hard to show
the same love for others
you show for yourself.”
But, now, thinking of husbands
as addressed in our theme,
who is a husband’s closest neighbor?
Well, his wife.
So especially must a husband work hard
to show the love that he shows
for himself just naturally and then
to show that love for his wife.
Now, what are some specific ways
that husbands
just naturally love themselves?
Well,
let’s talk about five.
And undoubtedly
you can think of many others
that could be discussed
during this discussion.
But number one:
A husband feeds himself.
Ephesians 5:29 says in part:
“For no man ever hated his own body,
but he feeds . . . it.”
Well, what does loving our wife,
now, as ourself require?
Well, for one thing,
we certainly would make sure
we provide for the food
and for other material needs
that our wife has.
And regarding this,
I think of our brothers
in concentration camps
in Nazi Germany.
Food was very scarce.
But our brothers, even then,
from their meager food ration
would share food
with other brothers,
even, in some cases,
with worldly people.
Well, similarly,
a husband would do without himself,
if necessary, in order to provide
what his wife really needs.
But even more importantly,
an extended application,
he would make sure
that she is well-fed spiritually.
He must make sure
that she has opportunity
to benefit from periods
of personal study,
congregation meetings,
assemblies, conventions,
and family worship.
But now let’s talk
about a second way
that a husband
just naturally loves himself:
We cherish ourselves.
Ephesians 5:29 says in part:
“For no man ever hated his own body,
but he . . . cherishes it.”
Now,
what does cherish mean?
Well,
according to the dictionary,
it means to treat
with affection and tenderness,
treasure, value,
attach importance to.
See, because of this feeling
we have toward ourselves,
we try to get rest
when we’re sick or tired;
we try to be
with friends and loved ones;
we play games; we exercise;
we do things we enjoy.
Periodically,
we treat ourselves, don’t we,
because we cherish ourselves?
So, what does loving
our wife as ourself require?
Well, it certainly means more
than just being able
to put up with our mate.
It means cherishing her,
cultivating affection,
or fondness, for her.
Think of this:
At Proverbs 8:31,
it says that Jesus
in his prehuman existence
was fond of humans.
Now, don’t you think
that fondness he had for us
made it easier for him
to come to the earth,
take the difficult assignment he took,
and even die for us
because he was fond of us?
Well, similarly,
if wives are cherished
by their husbands
—if husbands
are fond of their wives—
it’ll make it so much easier
to forgive them,
to even die for them,
if necessary, in the future.
But if we’re going to have
this proper feeling, like Jehovah,
we have to focus
on the good qualities of our wife, see,
not the flaws, the imperfections.
And as one
of the brothers commented on
(I love the thoughts
in The Watchtower comments):
“Love is best sensed
when it is expressed.
“How vital that marriage mates
“not allow the activities of daily life
to rob them of exchanging
expressions of affection!”
But now let’s get a third way
that husbands
just naturally love themselves:
We adorn ourselves.
First Timothy 2:9 speaks
of women “adorn[ing] themselves
in appropriate dress.”
Well, husbands
try to do the same thing.
And in adorning ourselves,
we try to cover over
and minimize our flaws
and cover our bulges,
our blemishes.
We try to make ourselves
look as good as possible, don’t we?
Well, what does loving
our wife as ourself require?
For one thing, we certainly
wouldn’t shine a spotlight on her flaws.
We wouldn’t do this
in the presence of others.
We would try hard
not to even do it in our own mind.
Rather, we seek to cover over
minor sins and transgressions,
as encouraged at Proverbs 19:11,
where it says:
“It is beauty . . . to overlook an offense.”
So we work hard
to adorn our wives
—make her look
as good as possible—
in the eyes of others,
even in our own mind.
Well, let’s get a fourth way
that husbands
just naturally love themselves:
We take steps to heal ourselves
when we’re sick or injured.
Mark 5:26
talks about a woman
who was very sick.
‘She suffered at the hands
of many physicians;
‘she spent all her resources;
she didn’t get any better;
she got worse.’
But the point is,
she was really trying hard
to heal herself.
Well, husbands
try to do the same thing.
So if we’re sick or injured,
we try to get extra rest,
we’ll buy medicine,
we’ll take vitamins,
we’ll make an appointment
with the doctor,
we’ll pursue therapy.
See, we try to get well.
What does loving our wife
as ourself require then?
Well, we would certainly
do all within our power
if she’s sick or injured
to try to help her get well.
But even more importantly,
if she happens
to be ailing somewhat spiritually,
we would do everything
we can possibly do
to help her get well spiritually.
What would be something,
perhaps, we could do?
Well, Proverbs 12:18 says:
“The tongue of the wise is a healing”
—so the using of wise expressions.
Also, Proverbs 16:24:
“Pleasant sayings are a honeycomb,
“sweet to the soul
and a healing to the bones.”
So, “pleasant sayings,”
we would use these
to try to help her
get well spiritually.
But now here’s one more,
a fifth way
that husbands
just naturally love themselves:
We make allowances,
excuses,
if we make mistakes.
Husbands who make mistakes
are often heard blaming it
on their heredity
or maybe the environment,
their blood-sugar level,
how much sleep they got
or didn’t get the night before,
the weather, and so forth.
We tend to well understand
our own limitations, don’t we?
And we allow for that.
Well, what about
loving our wife as ourself?
We’d make the same allowances for her
—being positive,
imputing good motives to her.
If she speaks a little roughly
or acts a little thoughtlessly,
we’ll try to discern the feelings
behind the words or actions.
We’ll make allowance,
especially if we can discern
that she’s under some kind
of emotional pressure.
We’ll make that allowance for her
like we would for ourselves.
Well, there we have five ways
that we as husbands
show love for ourselves.
We feed, cherish, adorn,
try to heal ourselves;
and we make allowances, excuses,
when we make mistakes.
Let’s work hard
to show the same love
in those five areas
for our dear, beloved wives.
And I’m sure, as we said,
you can think of other ways
that husbands just naturally
love themselves.
But what a rich illustration Jesus gave!
And interestingly,
he took it even a step further.
He further expanded the illustration
at John 13:34.
You’re familiar with this, 13:34.
He said:
“I am giving you a new commandment,
“that you love one another;
“just as I have loved you,
you also love one another.”
So he’s saying that we should have
even deeper love for our brothers
—which would definitely
include our Christian wives—
a deeper love
than we have for ourselves.
And that deeper love
would move us to treat
our dear wives even better
than we treat ourselves.